Product Description
===================

This project will consist of developing Virus Visualising Media, henceforth SANITISE (Showing and Naming Integral Tools in Slowing Epidemics). 
This project relevantly compares and visualises complex and dynamic data of the SARS-COV-2 (a.k.a. COVID or Coronavirus) outbreak promptly. 
In conjunction with efficiently and effectively delivering this data in an easily understandable format.

Product Description and Context
Given the current situation regarding SARS-CoV-2, we conferred and agreed that there was a lacking in centralised and relevant information for the general public. Currently, the closest products with similar goals are the ArcGis Dashboard (CSSE at John Hopkins University 2020) and the NSW Daily Telegraph live-page (Carayannis 2020) or the pure-data view of World Meter (World Meter n.d.). However, these miss the vital aim of our product, in essence, it must relevantly compare and visualise the complex and dynamic data of the SARS-CoV-2 outbreak promptly that helps enable well-informed and update predictions based on the latest data available for the current SARS-CoV-2 Epidemic. 
SANITISE comprises of two main components, a data-plane service for modelling and managing the data and a front-end service to meet accessibility requirements. This will possibly include scope extension(s) to include modularity to more viruses. Further, it will likely extend to further views and data interpolation. 
Following is a breakdown of the methodology and systems proposed for development as introduced above.
Models and Views 
The basis of these models and views derives from the developing research over the time frame of this project. These models and views are “not set in stone”, and their alteration may occur (several times perhaps) over the time frame of our project. However, the ideas presented in this proposal will outline the keys aspects that are fundamental to our product aims. This model outline follows, of course, due to the fundamental nature of SARS-CoV-2 and the ever-changing advice and research on the situation. From the research we have available, the following models will be used.
Story of SARS-CoV-2
A lot of misinformation is currently being spread on the origins of SARS-CoV-2. Conspiring theorist are running rampant with ideas that SARS-CoV-2 may be a US Government bioterrorism plan or was created in a Biosecurity Lab in Wuhan. SANITISE endeavours to deliver the most up to date information about the origins of SARS-CoV-2, to help the general public to understand the latest information that the scientific community has developed.  
The New York Times published an excellent article about the timeline of the Coronavirus (Wu, Cai & Glanz 2020). They were able to data visualisation to render out the estimated spread of the Coronavirus during the ‘Luna New Year’ period in China. SANITISE finds it critically important to establish an understanding and the timeframe of the Coronavirus.  SANITISE will in our story section of SARS-CoV-2 a detailed and graphical model of the spread of Coronavirus through this period, similar to what the New York Times published. Obviously it is impossible to cover every communities story around Coronavirus, however, is it certainly accessible to explain the intrecricies of the spread that lead up to SARS-CoV-2 to becoming a global epidemic. 
Data Visualisation 
A clear and effective way to easily be able to communicate large sums of data to the public is using several different visualisation medians. Such medians will involve interactive graphical interfaces, such as maps or graphs that can be manipulated by the user to discover further information about the spread and scale of the virus, and how this has been changing and the trends occurring over real time.
Predicitons Related to SARS-CoV-2
As a team of Data Engineers, we find prediction and modelling core to understand the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic. Not only is the modelling not clear for the average consumer, but filled with sensationlist headlines to only draw more attention to media corporations. SANITISE aims to have interactive and easily accessible explanations and information about SARS-CoV-2, in hopes this will allow the public to be more informed and help ease the sense of anxiety around SARS-CoV-2, with some form of certainty. 
 
